[NARRATOR] During this time,
Noboribetsu was Hokkaido's
largest hot springs area.
The springs were said
to have healing properties.
After the Sino-Japanese
and Russo-Japanese Wars,
the Seventh Division would
send their sick and wounded
to soak in the waters.
So good!
[USAMI] It's amazing!
I feel like I've been reborn!
[moaning]
[KIKUTA]
Private Nikaido. Private Usami.
Huh?
Did you two just arrive?
Oh, it's Warrant Officer Kikuta.
[KIKUTA]
Heh.
How has your rehabilitation
been coming along?
[KIKUTA] Hmm... Don't tell me
Lieutenant Tsurumi sent you over
because he was worried
about how I was doing.
He must be excited about my
return to the Seventh Division.
And how much stronger
his army will be.
Yahh...!
[squeals]
While I have you here,
did you hear about
what Private Ariko saw?
We haven't.
[KIKUTA] Last night, at a hot
spring somewhere farther up
the mountain,
he saw a strange man.
This man ran through the snow.
Completely in the dark,
wearing geta sandals.
Quite unusual!
This hot water feels
amazing on my balls!
[USAMI] Wait, is that
really all there is
to Private Ariko's story?
You know there are special
geta for walking in snow.
And night is the perfect
time for jogging.
You don't need a light if
your eyes adjust to the dark!
Honestly, it sounds like
he's getting all worked up
over nothing!
Anyway... I've got
better things to do!
He can tell you more about it.
Isn't that right, Private Ariko?
[ARIKO] It sounded like
he was wearing geta.
But from the footprints he left,
he couldn't have
been wearing them.
It was like he had
straw boots on.
So? I still don't get
why you care about this.
[KIKUTA] Well, there was more
to the story, right? Go on!
The clothes he was wearing...
They were unusual.
The pattern on them was odd.
Odd how?
[ARIKO]
It was hard to see it clearly,
on account of how dark it was.
You guys have been here
since the end of the war.
I bet the heat probably
scrambled your brains.
You're seeing things!
Well, you don't have
to put it that way.
[KIKUTA]
Hmm...
[NIKAIDO]
There's something I don't get.
There's a hot spring up in the
mountains you go to at night?
That's right.
It's a secret Ainu hot spring.
That means you're an Ainu?
I am.
What if that guy
was an Ainu, too?
Plus, it would
explain his clothes.
And the pattern you saw.
I'd recognize an Ainu pattern.
I think we're missing
some facts here,
'cause this story
isn't adding up.
Maybe it's nothing.
You know about this,
Mister Masseur?
A man wearing clothing with
strange Ainu patterns, huh?
Well... I'll have to keep
an eye out for him, then!
Ah! I get it!
[NIKAIDO cackling]
Yah! No way!
That's amazing!
Hey. Help me out here.
I'm curious.
[gasps]
--What?
--I was wondering...
I've heard that you know
about the tattoos on
the prisoners from Abashiri.
What do they look like?
[NIKAIDO]
Mm-mm. Sorry, I don't know.
[KIKUTA]
Hmm...
[SOLDIERS laughing]
[SOLDIER 39B]
Let's grab something to eat!
Ugh. Ariko. Ask
around in your village
to see if anyone's
seen that strange man.
Maybe we'll find a lead there.
Understood.
We're in a tough spot
because of those guys.
Assholes think we're crazy.
If we wanna get back
in Lieutenant Tsurumi's
good graces, the two of us
had better bring him
a nice gift.
[NIKAIDO] Hold on,
aren't we supposed to be
taking Warrant Officer
Kikuta and Private Ariko
back to Abashiri?
[USAMI] No. Lieutenant Tsurumi
said he's leaving Abashiri soon.
We'll meet up
with him elsewhere.
Did he mention what
he was planning on doing
with the fortune-teller
and the old cannibal?
Is he bringing them, too?
[USAMI] Whatever happens,
it's not my problem.
Hey, you! I'm not some punching
bag for you to beat up on!
--Huh?
--What kind of masseur are you?
It hurts! Do it lighter!
You suck at this.
Oh. Sorry 'bout that.
[MASSEUR 39A] It seems the two
guys who just arrived
are working under
Lieutenant Tsurumi.
[MASSEUR 39B] They'll be a
valuable source of intel.
We need to eliminate Ariko
and Kikuta before they get
any closer to the truth.
And quickly.
It would be best if we waited
for the next new moon.
If we do it now, the moonlight
will reflect off the snow.
We might not have the time.
If they manage to figure us out,
we'll have to leave this place.
And then Hijikata won't be
able to keep tabs on
the Seventh Division anymore.
[MASSEUR 39B] Anyway, you're
the one who let that soldier
see you, Toni.
This is your mess to clean up.
[TONI growls]
[NARRATOR] The hot springs
hidden in the mountains
that Ariko visited that night
are now known as
the Karurusu Hot Springs.
But the local Ainu had
another name for them.
"Penke-yu."
[KIKUTA]
So...
I wonder if I'll get to see
the geta man tonight?
[ARIKO speaking Ainu]
[popping echoing]
[KIKUTA]
The sound of geta!
[WOMAN 39A]
Hmm.
[speaking Ainu]
[KIKUTA] Seems that this is the
man Ariko was talking about.
He's got a light
with him this time.
Hey, you there! Take off your
jacket and turn around!
[gasps]
[TONI grunts]
[TONI]
He can see me?
The light should have prevented
his eyes from adjusting
to the darkness.
[KIKUTA]
Hold on! He has backup?
Don't try anything!
I can see you.
[gasps]
[gasping]
[NARRATOR]
According to some historians,
pirates wore eyepatches so
that when they needed to fight
below decks, they would
be able to quickly adjust
to the low-light conditions.
Warrant Officer
Kikuta anticipated
a night battle, and had worn
an eyepatch since sunset.
Because of that, his left eye
was acclimated to the darkness.
[TONI grunts]
Everyone stay down!
He isn't bluffing!
I knew it! This is why I wanted
to wait until the new moon!
So what do we do now?
[TONI grunts]
We have to get out of here!
Head towards the valley!
[MASSEURS grunting]
You're not gonna get away!
[popping echoing]
[KIKUTA groans] Can't see
anything with this gas.
[TONI] I'm getting sick of
smelling sulfur every day.
After I get my share
of the gold,
maybe I'll move near the ocean.
[stone clattering]
[KIKUTA groans]
He's over here!
[KIKUTA groaning]
[pop]
[KIKUTA grunts]
That was a hit!
[TONI]
Hmm.
[gunshots echoing]
[ARIKO]
Hmm? That's over at Hell Valley.
--[gunshots]
--[MASSEUR 39A grunting]
[TONI gasps]
[MASSEUR 39A rasps]
Be careful, you shitheads.
Don't scratch the guns
I won fair and square.
[NARRATOR]
During the Russo-Japanese War,
Warrant Officer Kikuta became
obsessed with collecting
handguns from the bodies of
Russian officers he killed.
The Nagant M1895
was a personal favorite.
He even had his men scour
the battlefield for them.
--[snow crunching]
--[KIKUTA gasps]
--[MASSEUR 39B groans]
--[USAMI] Don't shoot. It's me.
Peekaboo!
Watch out! He's got
reinforcements!
[TONI gasps]
--[gunshots]
--[MASSEUR 39B groans]
[TONI]
This is going to shit!
[tongue popping echoing]
[NIKAIDO]
He's fleeing into the mountains!
[ARIKO]
Warrant Officer Kikuta!
[KIKUTA]
Huh? You're here, too?
The "pattern" I saw
was really a tattoo.
[KIKUTA]
Let's go. We'll follow him.
[KIKUTA] Hey, your timing back
there was a little too good,
don't you think?
Almost like you and
Nikaido were staking out
the hot springs from the start.
Seems you figured out what
was going on from Ariko's story.
And were planning on
finding him first, right?
[giggles]
You found us out!
[KIKUTA]
Hmm...
Something about this
doesn't make sense.
Why would he hide out here?
Surely he knew it'd be risky
being surrounded by
members of the Seventh.
[NIKAIDO] Hmm... Oh.
I recognize this guy.
He's a masseur.
[TONI panting]
--[gunshot echoes]
--[TONI gasps]
[ARIKO]
From his footsteps,
it looks like he's
hiding out in there.
It's an old mine.
I've been inside once before.
Any other exits?
Quite a few, but who knows
if they've collapsed or not.
[tongue popping echoing]
[KIKUTA]
It's coming from inside.
We can't have any light.
It'll give us away.
[USAMI]
I can't see a thing...
[ice tinkles]
[USAMI grunts]
[KIKUTA]
Hold on...
There's something on the ground.
If we're not careful,
we'll give away our location.
[NARRATOR] These ice stalagmites
form when freezing water
drips onto the ground.
They're called hyoujun,
or "ice bamboo shoots"!
Even in Hokkaido, they can
only be seen in a few places!
Let's see how you
deal with this!
[KIKUTA]
We've gotta do something.
Seems the prisoner has
particularly good ears.
[KIKUTA] He's using the sound
of the ice breaking to track us.
Every step is a risk.
[ARIKO] I never even noticed
the ice when I explored
this place before.
If I had a cinoyetat with me,
I could avoid them.
But if I lit one, I'd just be
an easy target for him.
Uh?
[tinkling]
[ARIKO gasps, grunts]
[KIKUTA]
Agh! Bastard!
[tongue popping fading]
[KIKUTA] He's moving fast,
but I don't hear him hitting
any of the icicles.
How is he able to avoid them?
He shouldn't be able to
see them, it's pitch black.
Something similar happened
at Hell Valley with all the gas.
Hmm...
[tongue popping]
[TONI]
Hmm?
[sniffing]
[TONI]
He lit a torch?!
[groans]
He's one of the masseurs, too!
That explains why
the dark didn't bother him.
This is bad. He figured me out!
I see.
He's using sound to get
an accurate picture
of his surroundings.
Probably explains the sound of
geta sandals we were hearing.
Though, doesn't matter now.
[KIKUTA]
He made a break for it, huh?
[tongue clicking echoing]
[USAMI] H-Hold on a second,
Warrant Officer Kikuta!
I can't keep up
with my leg like this.
I'm begging you, please don't
leave me alone in here!
Seriously, I'm afraid
of the dark!
Who asked you to
come along? Damn it!
Why don't you let me
chase after him?
I think I know
where he's headed.
And this works out.
I prefer hunting alone.
All right, then.
Just don't let him get away.
[TONI groaning]
I need to get the bullet out...
--[crack]
--[TONI gasps]
[tongue clicking]
[USAMI] Are you sure Ariko
can handle this on his own?
Yeah, you're one to talk.
I should've left you.
Plus, he'll be fine.
He was part of the Mount Hakkoda
search party, after all.
[USAMI]
Hmm?
[NARRATOR]
The Lost March of Mount Hakkoda!
Two years before the start of
the Russo-Japanese War,
Aomori's Fifth Infantry Regiment
marched into a snowstorm
during one of their
winter training sessions.
199 men lost their lives in what
became the worst mountaineering
accident in history!
Are you serious? I never knew
that Ariko was one of the Ainu
who helped recover
the missing bodies!
The Ainu who helped
were invaluable.
They walked through waist-deep
water, and traveled across
the harsh snowy mountains
like they were nothing.
They found every single body
and brought them back.
Even the locals were
shocked by their abilities.
He knows this mountain
like the back of his hand.
Trying to escape with Rikimatsu
Ariko hot on your tail
is impossible.
[crack]
[TONI]
Hmm?
Ohh...
[crack]
Whoever it is keeps
breaking branches.
Is he stepping on
them on purpose?
--[gunshot echoes]
--[TONI gasps]
[TONI growls]
[TONI]
Hmm?
[low rumbling]
[TONI]
Where is this sound coming from?
[rumbling]
[TONI]
So that's it.
He corralled me
to this location.
A spot where he knew the snow
would be loose enough
for this to happen.
It seems I've lost.
Where is Warrant Officer Kikuta?
He went into the mountains
to search. Again.
Private Ariko's been
missing for four days.
I'm bettin' he kicked
the bucket out there.
Did you send a telegram
to Lieutenant Tsurumi?
[USAMI]
Yeah.
He said that he was on his way
here and we should stand by.
Makes sense, being we let Ariko
die and the prisoner managed
to escape after shooting
me in the leg.
[squealing]
The Lieutenant's gonna
chew me out again!
[laughing maniacally]
[NIKAIDO groans]
[WOMAN 39A]
Ipopte.
[ARIKO]
Hmm?
[WOMAN 39A]
Hmm.
[KIKUTA]
Hey, Ariko.
You really had me worried
for a while there.
I thought you had died.
I knew you'd find me.
Is that what I think it is?
You skinned him?
Why's that?
When I took a closer look at
the tattoos, I noticed that they
stopped at the medial line
of the prisoner's body.
What does that mean?
[ARIKO] It was a message
from whoever tattooed him.
To skin him the same way
you'd skin an animal.
[KIKUTA]
I see.
[ARIKO] We were too deep
in the mountains.
I knew I couldn't carry
his body back with me.
So, I skinned him right there.
And, if I left him out in
the snow, there's a chance
that Usami and Nikaido
would've found him.
I hid here knowing you'd
eventually come looking for me.
I figured it'd be
the safest choice.
[KIKUTA]
Hmm. What about his gun?
[ARIKO] I assumed that
you'd want it, so I looked.
But it was buried
in the avalanche.
The only other prize
I could bring back was this.
Well done, Ariko!
I'd say you made
the right call at every turn.
It's the perfect gift.
Lieutenant Tsurumi's
gonna love it.
With this tattooed skin, we'll
get back the time we wasted
and then some.
[SUGIMOTO, SHIRAISHI laughing]
Granny! What are you making?
Pretty please let it be
something that goes well
with saké.
Wait, it's just rice
soaked in water?
I dunno about that.
[NARRATOR] It's unknown
if this is a widespread
Karafuto Ainu tradition.
But there exists a record
of a dish called
"Grandma-Chewed Dumplings."
The grandchildren
who tried it said,
"I want more! It was delicious.
And that's all there is to it!"
[sniffing]
--[SUGIMOTO] Mm.
--[SHIRAISHI] Hmm.
[SUGIMOTO]
Hmm!
[SHIRAISHI grunting]
Mm...
It kind of reminds me
of kiritanpo.
That's also made
by mashing rice.
Hey! Granny!
I want more dumplings!
They were so good!
Pirka, pirka.
Don't hold out on us!
Come on, Granny!
Make us more!
Pirka, pirka.
I can't wait!
Just put it in my mouth!
I need Granny's goodness!
[TANIGAKI]
Uh...
[SUGIMOTO]
Bugh...
[TANIGAKI]
The hell is wrong with them?
--[SHIRAISHI chuckling]
--[SUGIMOTO guffawing]
Tsukishima.
Yes?
What's the word? Bar...
Uh... "barchonak"
mean in Russian?
Barchonok? Well, it's an insult,
like what someone might say
to make fun of a noble's son.
I guess.
Like, "Spoiled rich kid"?
Why do you ask?
[KOITO]
Hmm...
[NARRATOR] Next time:
"Spoiled Rich Kid"!